---
title: "Knowledge hiding and knowledge hoarding: Using grounded theory for conceptual development."
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-12-OJoAKM
date: 'December 2022'
month: 'December'
year: '2022' 
venue: 'Online Journal of Applied Knowledge Management'
paperurl: 'https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Tiago-Goncalves-27/publication/366649620_Knowledge_hiding_and_knowledge_hoarding_Using_grounded_theory_for_conceptual_development/links/63b45afbc3c99660ebc70688/Knowledge-hiding-and-knowledge-hoarding-Using-grounded-theory-for-conceptual-development.pdf'
papertype: article
---
### Abstract
Knowledge hiding and knowledge hoarding define two organizational behaviors that integrate knowledge withholding related phenomena in organizations. Although recent literature presents efforts to conceptually differentiate knowledge hiding and knowledge hoarding, evidence shows that there are emerging gaps resulting from conceptual and empirical inconsistencies between the constructs. This paper addresses the need for theoretical and empirical clarification by developing on the use of Grounded Theory (GT) as a systematic methodology to expand knowledge on both phenomena. This work explores core characteristics and procedures related to GT that can support the pursuit of theoretical refinement behind knowledge hiding and knowledge hoarding as dimensions of knowledge withholding. It presents three philosophical rationales that can support knowledge hiding and knowledge hoarding conceptualization using Classic, Interpretivist and Constructivist GT. Specifically, it provides a conceptual framework that discusses concerns of the researcher, literature review processes, data collection methods, and data coding and analysis strategies that should be considered to ensure quality in GT research. Lastly, it discusses an integration of research using mixed methods GT to address quantitative concerns surrounding GT. This paper contributes to the theoretical and empirical development of knowledge hiding and knowledge hoarding related phenomena by suggesting research conducts and designs to support the usage of GT approaches in the study of both phenomena

[Download paper here](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Tiago-Goncalves-27/publication/366649620_Knowledge_hiding_and_knowledge_hoarding_Using_grounded_theory_for_conceptual_development/links/63b45afbc3c99660ebc70688/Knowledge-hiding-and-knowledge-hoarding-Using-grounded-theory-for-conceptual-development.pdf)

Recommended citation:<br>
Gonçalves, T. (2022). Knowledge hiding and knowledge hoarding: Using grounded theory for conceptual development. <em>Online Journal of Applied Knowledge Management</em>, 10 (3), 26–46. https://doi.org/10.36965/ojakm.2022.10(3)6-26