---
title: "Understanding the HRM systems double contribution to radical and incremental innovation in SMEs: A configurational approach."
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/
date: 'January 2022'
month: 'January'
year: '2022' 
venue: 'Journal of Economics and Management'
paperurl: 'https://bibliotekanauki.pl/articles/2120141.pdf'
papertype: article
---
### Abstract
Aim/purpose – In this paper, we explore the contribution of Human Resource Manage-ment Systems (HRMS) to innovation in SMEs. We consider two HRMS with different orientations:  Commitment  HRMS  (focusing  on  long-term  career  development  to  in-crease employees’ creativity) and Collaboration HRMS (focusing on the use of external human capital  to achieve innovation).  We  believe that SMEs’  radical and  incremental innovation follow different paths from a configurational perspective. We want to under-stand how the two HRMS influence radical and incremental innovation, consequently, we explore the contributions of Commitment HRMS and Collaboration HRMS. Design/methodology/approach – We apply a  set-theoretic method, an analytic quanti-tative and  qualitative technique  to approach  data –  fuzzy-set Qualitative  Comparative Analysis (fsQCA) – to test our models. We use a sample of 377 Portuguese SMEs from across industries. Findings – Results show there are two pathways that lead SMEs to high levels of incre-mental innovation and three alternative paths that originate high levels of radical innovation. By contrast, there are ways that lead to lower levels of incremental (two options) and radical innovation (three options). Research implications/limitations – We provide propositions  for theory  development on the contribution of HRMS to innovation. Managerial contributions regard the several options provided to SME managers in search of innovation. Limitations regard the lack of generalization power of results due to the cross-sectional nature of the work. However, the research design is replicable without restrictions.  Originality/value/contribution – We suggest that SMEs’ radical and incremental inno-vation  follow different  paths from  a configurational  perspective. With  this study,  we contribute to showing the diversity of ways to reach higher innovation levels at SMEs, so  that managers  know  the alternatives  they  have at  their  disposal. Additionally,  we reveal the ways that lead to lower innovation levels at SMEs, so we alert managers to the undesired pathways they should be cautious about.

[Download paper here](https://bibliotekanauki.pl/articles/2120141.pdf)

Recommended citation:<br>
Curado, C., Gonçalves, T., & Brito, J. C. (2022). Understanding the HRM systems double contribution to radical and incremental innovation in SMEs: A configurational approach. <em>Journal of Economics and Management</em>, 44, 315–343. https://doi.org/10.22367/jem.2022.44.13 