---
title: "When do we share knowledge? A mixed-methods study of helping behaviors and HR management practices"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2023-02-BPMJ
date: 'February 2023'
month: 'February'
year: '2023' 
venue: 'Business Process Management Journal'
paperurl: 'https://www.emerald.com/insight/content/doi/10.1108/BPMJ-08-2022-0395/full/pdf?title=when-do-we-share-knowledge-a-mixed-methods-study-of-helping-behaviors-and-hr-management-practices'
papertype: article
---
### Abstract
**Purpose**
The purpose of this work is to investigate the relationship between human resources management practices (HRMP) and altruistic helping behaviors (HB) with knowledge sharing behavior (KSB) following a theoretical rationale supported by the Theory of Planned Behavior and the Social Exchange Theory.

**Design/methodology/approach**
The study explores linear and non-linear relationships between the variables to further understand knowledge sharing in the context of prosocial behaviors. The study sample gathers data from 130 employees coming from service sector companies operating in Portugal. The authors analyze the linear relationship following a structural equation model (SEM) approach using a partial least squares (PLS) analysis. Then, the authors conduct a fuzzy-set qualitative comparative analysis (fsQCA) to analyze non-linear relationships and provide insight over circumstances where the presence and absence of knowledge sharing behavior is achieved.

**Findings**
Quantitative findings show that HRMP positively impacts KSB outcomes. Similarly, HB also positively impacts KSB. Qualitative findings show a single configuration leading to the presence of KSB, corroborating the quantitative results. On the other hand, findings offer multiple alternative configurations leading to the absence of KSB.

**Originality/value**
Few studies explore the complex combination between HRMP and individual HB impacting knowledge sharing, with lesser studies discussing circumstances leading to the absence of KSB. We explore a) the linear influence of HB and HRMP and, b) their asymmetric combined influence along with employee demographics to better understand KSB complexity – ensuring a conceptual and managerial contribution driving future work and practices.

[Download paper here](https://www.emerald.com/insight/content/doi/10.1108/BPMJ-08-2022-0395/full/pdf?title=when-do-we-share-knowledge-a-mixed-methods-study-of-helping-behaviors-and-hr-management-practices)

Recommended citation:<br>
Gonçalves, T., Curado, C. and Martsenyuk, N. (2023), "When do we share knowledge? A mixed-methods study of helping behaviors and HR management practices", <em>Business Process Management Journal</em>, Vol. 29 No. 2, pp. 369-392. https://doi.org/10.1108/BPMJ-08-2022-0395