---
title: "Is knowledge liberating? The role of knowledge behaviors and competition on the workplace happiness of healthcare professionals"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-01-JHOM
date: 'June 2024'
month: 'June'
year: '2024' 
venue: ' Journal of Health Organization and Management'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1108/JHOM-12-2022-0382'
papertype: article
---
### Abstract
Purpose
The purpose of this paper is to highlight the joint impact of competitive culture and knowledge behaviors (sharing, hoarding and hiding) on workplace happiness among healthcare professionals. It addresses a literature gap that critiques the development of happiness programs in healthcare that overlook organizational, social and economic dynamics. The study is based on the Social Exchange Theory, the Conservation of Resources Theory and the principles of Positive Psychology.

Design/methodology/approach
The study analyzes a linear relationship between variables using a structural equation model and a partial least squares approach. The data are sourced from a survey of 253 healthcare professionals from Portuguese healthcare organizations.

Findings
The data obtained from the model illustrate a positive correlation between competitive culture and knowledge hoarding as well as knowledge hiding. Interestingly, a competitive culture also fosters workplace happiness among healthcare professionals. The complex relationship between knowledge behaviors becomes evident since both knowledge hoarding and sharing positively affected these professionals’ workplace happiness. However, no direct impact was found between knowledge hiding and workplace happiness, suggesting that it negatively mediates other variables.

Originality/value
This research addresses a previously identified threefold gap. First, it delves into the pressing need to comprehend behaviors that enhance healthcare professionals’ workplace satisfaction. Second, it advances studies by empirically examining the varied impacts of knowledge hiding, hoarding and sharing. Finally, it sheds light on the repercussions of knowledge behaviors within an under-explored context – healthcare organizations.

[Download paper here](https://doi.org/10.1108/JHOM-12-2022-0382)

Recommended citation:<br>
Gonçalves, T., Curado, C. & Muñoz-Pascual, L. (2024). Is knowledge liberating? The role of knowledge behaviors and competition on the workplace happiness of healthcare professionals.<em>Journal of Health Organization and Management, 38</em>(4), 469-493. https://doi.org/10.1108/JHOM-12-2022-0382 