---
title: "Knowledge and culture influences on quality of care: a mixed methods approach"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-03-IJIM
date: 'August 2024'
month: 'August'
year: '2024' 
venue: 'International Journal of Information Management'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2024.102788'
papertype: article
---
### Abstract
Concerns about the quality of care provided to patients have been recently revisited in the healthcare management literature, driven by the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic. Quality of care is a complex measure of healthcare performance that relies on optimizing healthcare knowledge. Knowledge management initiatives and practices in healthcare remain difficult to implement and develop – presenting a managerial challenge that must coexist in a competitive environment. This paper aims to study the contribution of knowledge-management systems, knowledge-sharing behavior, and competitive culture to the quality of care provided to patients. We use a mixed-methods approach to explore a research model in a sequence of two studies. Research data comes from a sample of 323 healthcare professionals in Portuguese healthcare organizations. Quantitative results show that both knowledge-management systems and a competitive culture positively influence the quality of care. Results also show a positive influence of knowledge-sharing behavior on the quality of care. Complementarily, qualitative results reveal two configurations leading to quality of care. The first highlights the role of knowledge-management systems alone as sufficient to provide quality of care. A second configuration involves cumulative contributions of competitive culture and individual knowledge sharing, leading to quality of care. Theoretical and practical implications are discussed, and a model for quality of care creation is offered. Limitations are acknowledged and future work directions are presented.

[Download paper here](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2024.102788)

Recommended citation:<br>
Gonçalves, T., Curado, C. & Oliveira, M. (2024). Knowledge and culture influences on quality of care: a mixed methods approach.<em>International Journal of Information Management, 77</em>, 102788. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2024.102788